So let's pick up where we have left off after the last lecture.
So we know that we can generate this subject.
We know how to say which view should be used for this particular type of e-mail.
Now let's implement this view.
So what you have to know about e-mail sending is that you can't just use any images from your Web site
or styles.
You probably would have to include everything in this email itself.
So this is because most e-mail clients are very restrictive to downloading resources from outside servers.
So it's always best to include everything in the email itself.
Also the HDR mails should be quite limited.
You shouldn't use all the modern features but actually creating HD the e-mail for e-mails is a topic
of on itself and not really part of this course.
But anyway let's try something.
So let's go ahead and add some simple styles so mind that in e-mails you can also use layouts.
So it's not a problem.
You can create a common e-mail layouts that you will use some common branding for all of your e-mails.
Now we are specifying the body because we want to specify the font family.
And we do that not to use that default font but instead we would like to use RTL and Helvetica sans
serif it's a safe font for emails.
Every system should have it.
So what this does is it says used those fonts in order.
If they are available so aerial is available on Windows probably on Unix to Helvetica a typical Mac
OS font.
So you are safe here and it's always better in my opinion on using the default which would be Times
New Roman.
If I remember correctly now we said that everything which is are public property on a Malabo class that
we are using would be available inside this very view which we have for us actually rendering that e-mail.
So let's go ahead and use some of this data so we can say hi comment commendable user name.
So what we are doing here is that each comment has a commendable which in our case we know is a blog
post.
Then each blog post has a user and user has a name attribute.
So we can say hello to the outer of the blog post.
That would be the first paragraph.
The next one would be some one has commented on your blog post.
Now what we can do is we can generate a link to this particular blog post
so let's do that.
We can use a rude helper as we would in any other review.
We know that posts show is a route to display a blog post.
Now we have to specify the blog post The Post parameter which is part of the route and we can also get
that from the comment it is comment commendable Heidi.
So remember the comment about is the entity related in the one too many polymorphic relationship to
a comment.
If you do not remember how this works you have to go back to the one too many polymorphic where we have
defined it.
So this will essentially be a blog post I.D..
Now let's close the array and the root call and inside it we will specify the title.
So that title is command commendable title so it is basically a blog post comment.
Now let's close this paragraph.
We can also add some horizontal line and then let's add a final paragraph to our e-mail and now we'll
say who added this comment.
So another link each graph.
Another route to be generated.
So this is user so this is our route for displaying our user profile.
The parameter there is called user.
And now there is comment each comment has a user relation.
And then there is I.D..
So this is actually extremely simple we can read all the data that we need just for having a comment
now we should also generate the name of the user.
So this is comment comment.
User name.
So we already have plenty of data but let's not leave it like that.
We can also we can also generate what actually was said.
So this was linked like with the user name.
So let's also add said semicolon what he actually has said.
And now finally the sorry not content about comment content.
So we will render the content of the actual comment that was made
now.
The last thing we have to do is we actually have to send this email from somewhere so for now let's
keep it simple.
Of course when we can do that using events that would be preferred preferred way to do that.
And since we will cover e-mail events very deeply in the next upcoming sections for now let's just keep
it simple and do that inside the controller.
So we have a controller for that a very simple one post comment controller.
This is where all the comments to blog posts are added.
So let's see what we are doing here.
We are creating our new comment and immediately relating that to our blog posts.
So what actually actually gets returned is a comment.
So no surprise here the comment is already saved.
Now to send us an email we will use our first save the mail for Sage.
So make sure you add this import
now we should specify to whom this should be sent.
And fortunately we can just specify our user instant instance instead of directly specifying the email
address.
So a lot of it is smart it can understand that and we already have a post and the Post has a user.
So we want to send this email to the outer of the post that someone has commented on his email.
So this is very smart.
Finally there is a send the method and magically what you see it accepts an instance of the Malabo class
and what comment post it happens to be extending is exactly the same.
Then mail level class.
So what we will do right now is we will create a new instance of the sorry.
Not this one.
The comment post that class that we have just created.
Mind that import that was added and since we know that this class has a constructor with one argument
that is required and it is a comment we now can pass our comment variable which we get from calling
post comments.
Create.
So this is magical isn't it.
That's everything that we had to do to actually send an email.
So let's remove this line it's not really needed now.
Important thing to know is that you probably shouldn't be sending emails directly throughout the controller
because this can be done later and well.
Sending email usually is pretty long.
So this can take a couple of seconds even but we'll get to that later.
Now let's just leave it as it is.
Save the changes and let's go to any blog post.
Make sure you are out antiquated and let's write a comment.
Hello.
Writing.
This comment.
To see an email you can write anything that you like here.
I'll just press out comment and something actually went wrong with the route I'm using so it's not post
so it's posts show.
Sorry for that.
Let's fix that.
And just to refresh this so you can see it's already taking a little bit longer to post a comment so
the comment is there but it's not something that interests us what we want to check.
Is the mail drop so you can see we already have this message.
You can check out the subject comment was posted on your and this is the blog post title something in
Latin blog post.
There we have the content which is HDMI.
You can even check the source.
It is exactly how we generate adult but the most interesting part is actually the HDMI out.
Someone has commented on your blog post the title which also has a link we can directly go to this blog
post.
And then there is the John Doe link so you can go to the John Doe profile and exactly what he has said.
So I actually have written this.
Just seconds before.
So this was everything that we needed to actually send an email.
So in the next lecture we'll see much more options that we can deal with.
Emails.
But this is enough for now.
You are actually able to send emails from your larval application.